Let's just jump right into it and write some integration tests.
Now, before anything, we need to identify the type of web requests that can be made.
There are three.
A get request can be made on an empty path, and that request can include an ID parameter.
A get request can be made on handle.
Submit.
Looking back, I should have called the handler method handle, submit and called and specified a path
of submit form.
I don't know why I got that backwards, but anyway, let's just roll with what we have.
Doesn't really matter all that much.
And we have another web request that is made on slash grades.
So step one is going to be to perform a mock request that simulates a Web request.
And step two is going to be to make assertions with respect to the model view and status.
As the test maps, the entire request and response lifecycle, the assertions will verify if different
parts of your app were interacting as they should.
So let's start with step one.
First, we will perform a mock request on the empty path.
And include an ID parameter in that request.
So over here.
Instead of running the app and going on local host AT&T, we're going to create an integration test,
public void.
And this test is going to verify that great form behaves correctly as it handles web requests made on
an empty path.
So I'll call this test show grade form.
And now I can build a mock request using a request builder.
I can say request builder request is equal to mock MVC request builders dot get and we're going to make
a get request on an empty path and include an ID equals to one, two, three.
All right.
Now, the ID you pass in doesn't really matter, because the handler method is going to call grade service,
get grade by ID, which is capable of handling invalid IDs.
But now we can use mock MVC to perform a mock request.
I can say mock MVC upper form, and it's going to make a request.
I called this request builder, let me call it request.
That's more intuitive.
And I think this is beautiful because we're able to mock a get request without actually running the
application and going on localhost, 80, 80.
The test is going to traverse all of the applications layers starting from the controller, which is
kind of call upon the great service, which is going to call upon the repository.
So this test is going to travel all of our applications layers.
Which brings us to step two.
You need to make assertions with respect to the model view and status.
The assertions will verify if components across all layers of your app are working as they should.
The reason we have an error is because this throws a checked exception.
Let's just say throws exception here and get rid of it.
All right.
And now after making the request, I expect the status.
To be successful.
I always have trouble importing the status, so I'm just going to leave you this import inside of your
resources folder.
You can grab it and copy it.
Anyways, I expect the status to be successful.
I expect the view that's returned.
This isn't importing either.
You know what?
Let's just import everything from mock MVC result matches.
I expect the view returned to be named form.
And I expect the model.
To have an attribute.
A tribute exists.
Called Grade.
This is the object that's going to back our forum data.
Now I can run my integration test.
And it passes.
Now I have confidence that the app can successfully handle get requests made on an empty path.
All right.
Next thing we're going to do is perform a mock request on the path handle submit.
The next test we write will validate the life cycle of a successful submission.
So I'll go back and create an integration test that is capable of making post requests.
I will call the Integration Test Test successful submission.
Let's just throw the exception right now.
As before, you can build a mock request using the request builder.
Request Builder request is equal to mock MVC.
Request Builder's dot post because it will be making a post request and the post request will be made
on the path.
And I'll submit.
I really wish I had called this submit form because that would make a lot more sense.
But anyways, the handler method for handle submit.
It expects a valid grade object.
So by default this handler method, it will create a grade object using your empty constructor, but
then it needs to update every single field in that object with payload from the post request.
So we still need to pass in the name, the subject and the score fields right here.
And we can do that by saying dot param, we need to pass in a name.
Uh, we'll say Harry.
Pass in a subject.
Let's say potions.
And passing a score.
What's, say, C-minus.
Now, just like we did with the form and make sure the parameters you pass into the post request match
the fields of your pod.
So now we can use mock MVC to perform the post request.
I'll say Mock MVC.
Dot perform.
It will perform the post request.
Now, by the end of this Post request, we expect a redirection.
Now let's just say that we make the post request and it's successful.
The great object is going to be valid.
The binding result won't have any errors, so we expect a redirection by the very end.
So here we'll say and expect status.
Dot.
Is redirection.
Run the test.
And it passes.
Beautiful.
All right.
And then we can say we expect the redirected URL.
To be.
Like, Great.
Yeah, it's not great.
Of course it is.
All right.
If both of these pasts.
Now I'm confident that if the user enters valid data, the application will respond appropriately by
redirecting them to the grade's view.
Now, what if the user enters invalid data?
How is our app going to behave?
Once again, we can use an integration test.
We'll say public void test, unsuccessful submission.
Heroes exception.
Oops.
This test will validate the life cycle of an unsuccessful submission.
And as before, you can build a mock request using a request builder.
Let's say request builder request is equal to mock MVC request builders.
Post.
We're going to make a post request on handle submit.
All right.
And we're going to pass parameters into the post request, but they're going to be invalid.
So we'll say.
Blank, blank and will put in an invalid grade of our plus and let's perform the post request play mock
MVC perform request.
And upon performing this request, we expect.
The grade to be invalid.
The binding result is going to have errors.
The view returned will be the form.
So.
The status is still going to be 200 successful.
However, the view returned is going to be the form, and if the form is returned, and that's a clear
indication that our handler method did not accept the user's garbage data and it prompted them to go
back and resubmit it.
So let's run this integration test.
And our test passes.
Now, I'm fully confident that my post mapping can correctly handle successful and unsuccessful submissions.
The last thing we're going to mock is a request on slash grades as before.
I will create an integration test public void, and I'm going to call it.
Test get grades.
Heroes exception.
Like always, I will make build a mock request using the request builder.
Is equal to mock MVC request builders do dot get and I will make a get request on grades.
Now we can use mock MVC to perform the get request.
Mock MVC dot perform.
All right.
Again, this is beautiful how we're able to simulate a get request without actually running the application
and going on local host.
Anyways, now we're going to make assertions with respect to the model view and status.
So by the end of the request and response, what we're expecting is a status of 200.
The view returned must be grades.
And the model must contain a grade's attribute model.
Attribute exists.
Grades because that grades attribute is needed to populate the grades table.
And if you're on this test, it passes.
This gives me a lot of confidence that a request made on the path slash grades will return the right
view and the right data.
With this last test, we successfully validated the interaction of different layers in the app.
We mocked every web request the user can make, and by the end of the request response lifecycle, as
it traversed all of the applications layers, we verified the model, we verified the view, and we
verified the status.